# PortfolioProjectPython

Python code covering a number of topics can be found in this repository, each code's name should help identify what each does but I will also supply a general 
description of each upload here in the README for ease of access.

The VCF_filtering file was used in my PhD and was created to process a directory of VCF files in order to isolate and document unique variant calls across numerous
cell lines. The program can take any number of VCF files and it is possible to specify a cutoff for numer of times a mutation is present across all lines. The code
will then take the desired output and create a new excel table and write the data to it, for each cell line in the directory it will create a seperate sheet within
that table for easier comparisons. As is it is currently set to produce only the unique mutations, but can be made to pull shared mutations or higher counts.

The EarlyLateMutation file was code that was mostly generated by Jade Takakuwa in the Sung lab for a project my colleague was working on for his thesis.
I have provided some logical checks and minor modifications throughout. This code is used in conjuction with the CDVIZ and CDMAP code (context dependent) generated by David Patton for his thesis, and is used to help detect the postions of early and late replication origins across bacteria samples. It also tabulates transition and transversion substitution mutations, as well as account and adjust for generational time per sample. These focus on AT and GC sites in both early and late replicating positions.

The movie correlation data project is used as a means to practice some data manipulation and to find various correlations across the dataset. 
Numerous plots were generated from scatterplots with correlation lines as well as multiple heatmaps were created to better help visualize the data.
I also wanted to play around with modifying datatypes and make comparisons between values in datasets that were outside the realm of bioinformatics.


the alignPos, filterSig, lineCvg, parseConsensus, printAllPos, printBasesBwa, printConsensus, pullMutsConsensus, and pullMutsCvg are all files that I have been working on converting from Perl to Python, they are used regularly in my lab to handle mpileup data processing, they can be customized for quality score selection and amount of shared mutations across any number of cell lines. Collectively they make up a pipeline my lab has developed to automatically process mpileup data for mutation detection and processing with the aid of some bash scripts and select input files.
